OSDOCS#6618: Update availability FAQ (#61657)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/update-availability-faq.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/understanding-openshift-updates.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="update-availability_{context}"]
= Common questions about update availability

There are several factors that affect if and when an update is made available to an {product-title} cluster. The following list provides common questions regarding the availability of an update:

[id="channel-differences_{context}"]
*What are the differences between each of the update channels?*

* A new release is initially added to the `candidate` channel and is often available as an update target for clusters on the `candidate` channel.

> * After successful internal and external testing, a release on the `candidate` channel is supported by being promoted to the `fast` channel, and is often available to clusters on the `fast` channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After successful final testing a release on the `candidate` channel is promoted to the `fast` channel, an errata is published, and the release is now fully supported.
```

Author: I'm assuming you suggested removing "often available to clusters on the `fast` channel" wording because it is extraneous or should not be the focus of this answer. To be consistent, I think I'll remove similar wording from the lines above and below, but let me know if I should keep those phrases instead.

Reviewer: Yeah, sorry I'd typed up comment but failed to save. It seemed too hand wavy to me, if it passes tests it goes out. Sounds good to me to remove that consistently.

> * After a delay and more successful testing, a release on the `fast` channel is finally promoted to the `stable` channel and is often available to clusters on the `stable` channel. This delay represents the only difference between the `fast` and `stable` channels.

Reviewer 2: Can we drop "and more successful testing" here?  Red Hat QE has wrapped up their internal testing before we declare support for the release and promote it to fast  channels.  Maybe external customers are testing during the delay between fast and stable.  Both internal and external users in fast channels are updating to the new release, and they may hit bugs, and report those bugs, and perhaps those bugs result in declared update risks, but that's just "operating a supported cluster", not "testing".

+
[NOTE]
====
For the latest z-stream releases, this delay may generally be a week or two. However, the delay for initial updates to the latest minor version may take much longer, generally 45-90 days.
====

* Releases promoted to the `stable` channel are simultaneously promoted to the `eus` channel.
The primary purpose of the `eus` channel is to serve as a convenience for clusters performing an EUS-to-EUS update.

[id="channel-safety_{context}"]
*Is a release on the `stable` channel safer or more supported than a release on the `fast` channel?*

* If a regression is identified for a release on a `fast` channel, it will be resolved and managed to the same extent as if that regression was identified for a release on the `stable` channel.

> * The only difference between releases on the `fast` and `stable` channels is that a release only appears on the `stable` channel after it has been on the `fast` channel for some time and has not had any major issues.

Reviewer 2: Can we drop "and has not had any major issues" or replace it with text about giving update risks more time to bubble out?  We will add a release to stable channels after it has cooked in fast channels, even if we discover  major issues.  The only thing that is different is the delay, so customers in stable channels are more likely to have any conditional update risks already declared by the time it shows up in their channel.  For example:

1. Release A is all stable.
2. Release B enters candidate channels.
3. Risk X for A-to-B updates is discovered and declared as a conditional update risk.
4. Release B enters fast channels.
5. Risk Y for A-to-B updates is discovered and declared as a conditional update risk.
6. Release B enters stable channels.
7. Risk Z for A-to-B updates is discovered and declared as a conditional update risk.

Customers on release A in candidate channels may be recommended to update to B before any of those risks are known, and even before we know if B will ever be supported (it could end up getting tombstoned).

Customers on release A in fast channels may be recommended to update to B before risks Y and Z are known.

Customers on release A in stable channels may be recommended to update to B before risk Z is known.

The longer you wait, the more complete our understanding of A-to-B risks is.  The fast-to-stable wait is internal Red Hat for "we've collected a bunch of data now,  and are feeling pretty confident that any not-yet-discovered risks are very rare".

Author: Will replace "and has not had any major issues" with "which provides more time for new update risks to be discovered". Let me know if that doesn't work for you

> ** This delay is used to further test and gather data about a release that is on the `fast` channel, but otherwise there is no difference between releases on each of the channels.

Reviewer 2: Can we replace "to further test and gather data" with "to allow for new update risks to be discovered" or something similar that drops "test" and focus on passive monitoring?  Basically the same point discussed [here][1], but applied to this line.

[1]: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/61657#discussion_r1242629259

[id="supported-updates_{context}"]
*What does it mean if an update is supported but not recommended?*

* Red Hat continuously evaluates data from multiple sources to determine whether updates from one version to another lead to issues.

> If an issue is identified, an update path may no longer be recommended to users.

Reviewer 3: Do we intend to be vague here? What if customers ask what kind of update path will no longer be recommended and what will be still recommended?

Reviewer 3: > until now I haven't heard any feedback from stakeholders and SMEs that this should be more specific.
Good to know! I personally think we can add the link https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/updating/understanding_updates/how-updates-work.html#update-evaluate-availability_how-updates-work here to let users know more about `update is supported but not recommended`

Author: I'm happy to add a link to that exact section of the new "How cluster updates work" page. However, due to a technical limitation, I realistically can't add links to our documentation within modules like this. I'm happy to answer questions about that if you have any.

However, I can certainly add that link to the additional resources that would appear below this section on the website.

[id="removed-recommendation_{context}"]
*What if I see that an update to a particular release is no longer recommended?*

* If Red Hat removes update recommendations from any supported release due to a regression, a superseding update recommendation will be provided to a future version that corrects the regression.
There may be a delay while the defect is corrected, tested, and promoted to your selected channel.

[id="z-stream-release-cadence_{context}"]
*How long until the next z-stream release is made available on the fast and stable channels?*

* While the specific cadence can vary based on a number of factors, new z-stream releases for the latest minor version are typically made available about every week. Older minor versions, which have become more stable over time, may take much longer for new z-stream releases to be made available.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
These are only estimates based on past data about z-stream releases. Red Hat reserves the right to change the release frequency as needed. Any number of issues could cause irregularities and delays in this release cadence.
====

> * Once a z-stream release is made available, it also appears in the `fast` channel for that minor version. After a delay, the z-stream release may then appear in that minor version's `stable` channel.

Reviewer 3: Looks like it's kind of duplicate with the answer of "What are the differences between each of the update channels". If we want to keep it, is it possible to replace `is made available` with `is published` or `is shipped alive` or something such?

Author: It is a duplicate, but I think it's worth keeping in case someone doesn't read that question but would still find that detail helpful for this question.

I can change "is made available" to say "is published" instead, thank you.
